Thank you.
And one more thing,
Mr. Tresidder.
Your mill provides rolling
and cutting services
for the Carnmore Copper Company?
Yes.
In these difficult times,
we urge all who bank with us
to consider where their
best interests lie.
Particularly when they have
several outstanding
loans with us.
Still building
your empire, Ross?
And you bought all the copper.
All we could afford
while the price was low.
Next time, they'll be wise to us
and the price will rise.
That is good news for the mines
and your shareholders.
In the short term, yes.
And in the long term,
anything which breaks
the Warleggans' stranglehold
and stops them keeping prices
artificially low...
Benefits Leisure and Carnmore.
Benefits miners, smelters,
and shareholders alike.
The Warleggans only seem
to benefit themselves, Francis.
I hope you know
what you're taking on.
I would I had your support.
I know I have your discretion.
Of course.
I've been too busy to bake.
How's that?
I told you.
I've been helping Dr. Enys
with his work.
Enys ain't your husband.
But people hereabout
depend on him.
I'm proud to serve him.
Damp and dust,
no friend to the lungs.
Fresh air and exercise.
A little sea bathing.
Fennel root and ginger
in warm water.
Come and see me in a month.
Trencrom's finest!
Need you inform
half of Cornwall?
Tucked her away, I did,
in your father's old mine!
Wheal Grace?
Best hiding place there be.
Take a brave man
to venture down there.
Folk say it's haunted.
You'll be haunted
if that barrel's not intact
when I return home.
Aye, sir.
You know me, sir...
Honest as the day is short.
Trencrom?
Suppliers of fine goods,
direct from France.
Without troubling the excisemen?
Will you break even this month?
With luck.
And a fair auction.
You must be relieved.
Yes.
I should get back
to my patients.
Dwight...
(softly): Have a care.
Of course.
You look weary, Mark.
Keven.
She do have me up all hours,
mending the roof.
Mind you don't exhaust yourself.
MARK: 'Tisn't I who
wants minding, Ross.
Ross, I bring word
from Tresidder's Mill.
As of next week,
we must look elsewhere
for our rolling and cutting.
So be it.
We shall take our
business elsewhere.
Shall we walk to Prudie?
Come on, ready?
That be Master Ross's rum.
'Twas.
Now it be Master duds.
Out now!
'Fore I give you such a skat
in the chacks!
I'm away!
I'm away.
♪ And a strange woman
be a narrow pit ♪
♪ For she lieth in wait
for a man ♪
"♪ Those that tarry too long
at the wine J"
♪ Their eyes shall behold
strange sights. ♪
I know that fizzogg.
'Twould make milk curdle.
Cap'n Poldark'll fetch ye
such a colloppin'!
Cap'n Poldark.
Who be Cap'n Poldark
giving himself airs?
Everyone do know he's had half
the maids from here to Truro!
Keep your voice down
afore the child!
The child? That child?
What about Jinny Carter's child?
What about it?
Everybody do know that
Cap'n Ross be its father!
'Tis a lie!
Ignore him.
'Tis a wicked, wicked lie!
No wonder he went to Bodmin
to see Jim Carter in the ground!
And don't ye bend ye brows
at me, girl.
He ain't naught but a trull
from 'Luggan!
Go.
Go where?
I neither know nor care.
But if you're still
in this house by daybreak,
I will personally horsewhip you
from here to Truro!
Where's Verity?
Is she not in her room?
If Jud goes, so will Prudie.
And I'm sorry for that.
For you'll miss her.
But what he said,
I cannot think he meant it.
You know how he is
when the liquor's upon him.
My liquor was upon him!
He's lucky it wasn't my foot!
Liquor or not,
he's disrespected you
and this house once too often.
Best place I ever know'd.
And now, thanks to thee...
'Tisn't right, 'tisn't fair,
'tisn't just, 'tisn't fitting.
Hold your clack, you black worm,
or I'll crown thee meself!
Where's Verity?
Little Verity?
Out, I believe.
Did she say where?
Not as I recall.
Left something, though.
What?
Sealed, it was.
As if I care
to know her secrets.
"I've known and loved you
all my life, dear Francis,
"so I pray you will understand
the grief and loss I feel
that this should be
our parting."
You will lie here tonight,
my dear.
I've arranged to sleep
on board my ship.
And tomorrow...
We shall be wed.
So this is how she cares for us?
To sneak away
under our very noses
and marry that
wife-murdering drunkard?
But how was it arranged?
She must have had help.
Has anyone been calling
unbeknown to us?
Or been seen about the grounds?
Someone that knew Miss Verity
and might have
carried a message?
I knew this was Ross's doing!
Why would you think that?
Because he has
helped them before!
I can see it all.
He's encouraged Verity...
We do not know this.
He's been acting
as agent to Blarney,
keeping the skunk's
interest warm,
and using Demelza
as a go-between.
You're too hasty.
We've no proof Demelza's
involved, let alone Ross.
Oh, yes, of course, you will
always stand up for Ross!
I stand up for no one.
But it is the merest justice
not to condemn people unheard.
There is no other way
this could have been managed.
She has no post,
I have seen to that.
Damn Ross!
Damn this family,
damn this entire pitiful excuse
for an existence!
I hope I'm not intruding.
But I see that I am.
Is something amiss?
Forgive me,
but it may be within my power
to offer assistance.
I suspect not.
But that is precisely
the reason I'm here.
So there you have
our predicament.
That's extraordinary.
What I despise most
is the deceit.
And from someone I trusted.
Your sister?
My cousin.
You blame Ross?
Entirely.
You mentioned a reason
for your visit?
FRANCIS: No doubt I've...
omitted some payment.
GEORGE: On the contrary.
We, our family, find ourselves
indebted to you.
HOW?
You're aware that substantial
gaming losses
were accrued by Francis
to my cousin Matthew?
It's possible...
Probable...
That you were a victim
of Matthew's dishonesty.
That being so,
we wish to make amends.
HOW?
By canceling some of your debts
to our bank.
We cannot accept charity,
George.
Charity be damned.
Our family's integrity
has been compromised
and we wish to recover it.
I insist you accept our apology.
And £1,200.
12?!
And now we need detain you
no longer.
Do not keep Francis up too late.
I have his best interests
at heart.
You see?
I did mend your smile,
after all.
Aniseed...
Hartshorn...
Senna...
Aqua Mirabilis.
What are they for?
I've a thirst for learning.
Some are nature's remedies,
others I concoct myself.
All are as efficacious as any
Thomas Choake prescribes,
but infinitely more affordable.
You'll not make a living
like that.
I came here to heal my patients,
not bankrupt them.
You've already made me
whole again.
This must stop, Keren,
this coming here.
Your husband does not like it.
Do you like it?
I have work to do.
My purpose here is...
Kiss me.
No.
Just the once.
Keren, you and I know
it would not be just the once.
Would that matter?
What matters is...
where it would lead.
Shall I go on?
And on?
Till you tell me to stop?
'Tisn't just Jud.
'Tis Carnmore do trouble you.
There are forces opposing us.
Warleggan forces?
With what aim?
To put us out of business.
Well, if Tresidder won't have
you, where will you go?
We'll find somewhere.
The whole of Cornwall
doesn't yet knuckle to George.
Nor will it, if I can help it.
What could George do?
For now, nothing.
He's leaned on Tresidder,
but unless he discovers
these names...
If he did?
He'd realize that,
barring myself and Henshawe,
all bank at Warleggans'.
What are you doing?
Hiding it.
'Twas a rockfall.
The charge was damp.
We thought it dead,
and then out of nowhere...
Are you badly hurt?
Get Dr. Enys to look at that.
I'd sooner bleed to death!
It's galling for the family,
but your sister
will realize her mistake
and soon come crying home.
Well, then let Ross take her in,
since he encouraged
her treachery.
Damn it, I expect more loyalty
from my only cousin.
What did lever do
that he should go
behind my back like this?
Well...
I suppose you married
the girl he loved, didn't you?
Yes.
Yes, that.
No, that was long ago, and he's
happily married himself now.
More happily, in fact, than...
No, it's not on that score,
I assure you.
(shouting): Keren?
Keven'?
I sympathize.
I, too, find Ross unfathomable.
In some ways, you and I
are in the same boat.
What's perplexed me of late has
been Ross's attitude towards me.
When he opened his mine,
the other venturers were
for banking with Warleggans',
yet he fought tooth and nail
to go with Pascoe's.
No, I doubt that was personal.
And then this wildcat
copper-smelting scheme.
It's clearly directed
against us.
I don't think against you,
precisely.
The aim is to get
fairer prices for the mines.
It's not the scheme
which upsets me,
for it will fail
for lack of money.
But it demonstrates
an enmity towards me
which I don't feel I deserve.
Any more than you deserve
his betrayal.
Of your family.
Where have you been?
Oh, Mark!
You're back early.
Why did you...?
You're hurt!
What happened?
Let me see.
Where have you been?
I couldn't sleep, I had a pain.
I thought maybe a walk
would ease it.
You've been with Enys.
I've not!
You've been lying with Enys.
I went to see him.
He's a doctor, isn't he?
I needed something for the pain.
How long?
What?
How long were you there?
About an hour.
I waited three.
'Twas nothing, Mark.
'Twas only a kiss.
'Twas only the once.
It was him, he...
he pestered me,
he wouldn't let me be.
'Tis you that's to blame.
You left me alone overmuch.
You never loved me enough!
I loved ye more than life!
I did.
I loved ye, Keren.
You don't know what love is!
You don't know!
No...
You don't know, you don't know!
You don't know! You don't know!
You don't know!
Keven'?
Keren...
Don't ye fool with me, Keren.
Wake up now.
Wake up, Keren.
Wake up!
No...
Oh, no.
Oh, no, Keren!
I never meant...
“In-
Damn Ross!
Damn his scheming!
He has married my sister
to a wife-beater
and he has disgraced
my family name.
You know, if he cares
so little for my interest,
why should I care for his?
You were saying you thought
Carnmore was well supported.
Surely no man of sense
would invest in such a scheme.
What would you say
to Lord Devoran?
Or Sir John Trevaunance?
Or Richard Ton kin?
Henry Blewiit?
Thomas Johnson?
William Aukitt?
JUD: What I said, 'twas
nothing worse than usual.
"Us he."
Getting soft
since he did wed her.
And since
the blatherin' child come.
And there be another.
Cakey as custard.
Mr. Daniel?
I regret this intrusion, but...
I believe I've wronged you.
I have no excuse, but I was...
I wish to make amends.
Oh, God, no!
We had it from surgeon hisself.
'Twas maybe an accident.
Where's Mark?
Haven't seen him
since he went home last night.
"Us never Mark's doing."
He did love her.
Little as she deserve it.
I must speak with him, Paul.
Your brother's
in serious trouble.
If you know where he is...
How would I?
Surgeon needs
to watch his back, though.
He's no more than a boy.
Mark could snap him
easy as a twig.
And Keren?
We all know his strength.
We know he wouldn't mean
to hurt her.
You'd never turn him in!
I've known him since
I was a boy.
I've no wish to see him hunted
down and hung from a gibbet.
But if he's done this thing...
He'll get no justice!
You know that!
Just ask Jim Carter.
ROSS: How did she die?
Broken neck.
Deliberate?
I could not say
beyond all doubt.
What will happen now?
If you take my advice,
you'll leave.
Without delay.
There's a warrant out
for Mark's arrest.
Dear God!
Every villager is bound by law
to help in his capture,
but I don't believe a single one
will do so.
They'd take his side.
And rightly so.
Not against you, Dwight.
Within a week, he'll be found
and brought to justice.
It will then be safe
for your return.
What do you take me for?
To skulk away to safety
while the man I wronged
is hunted down like an animal?
No.
I'd sooner meet him face to face
and take the consequence.
Which could be fatal.
I'll take my chance.
Besides...
I cannot leave these people.
I have been met with nothing
but kindness here,
and to repay them like this...
No.
I thank you for your concern,
but I will stay.
Then your blood be
on your own head.
Keren's is there already.
Is it true about Keren?
Folk are saying
her neck was broke.
O" Purpose?
I doubt it.
But the magistrates
will think otherwise.
And what of Mark?
The constables are out in force.
And your admirer, Sir Hugh,
has called in the soldiers.
HOW?
They were in the area
looking for smugglers.
As a magistrate, he has
the power to commandeer them.
And if Mark is found?
He'll hang.
MARK: And well deserve it.
I killed her.
I didn't mean to, but I did.
You know as well as I
she brought him to it.
Her and Enys.
The courts will never
accept that.
I must give myself up.
No!
I ain't safe.
If I see Enys,
I'll swing for him,
as I'll rightly swing for her.
No, Mark.
One life's already lost.
What would it serve
to waste another'?
If it's to happen,
it must be tonight.
And from Nampara Cove.
And in our boat?
She's not fit for ocean-going
when the seas are rough,
but a resolute man
could do worse in fair weather.
And go where?
Ireland?
Brittany?
And the oars?
Might find their way to the cove
after dark,
together with enough supplies
to keep a man alive.
'Tisn't lawful.
No.
But some might say it is
a kind ofjustice.
We must keep Mark away
from Dwight.
We don't want more blood
on his hands.
Go upstairs and change.
And prepare to be the lady.
My dear, this is Captain McNeil.
Captain McNeil, may I present
my wife, Demelza.
The pleasure is mine, ma'am.
Captain Poldark and I
are old comrades.
We were together at James River
in '81.
Oh, I see.
I understood he was acquainted
with the murderer,
and wondered if he could
give me any pointers
as to where
the felon might hide.
None that spring to mind.
Though I don't imagine
he'll linger.
Any suitable boats hereabouts
whereby he might make
his escape?
A few, I suppose.
I have one myself.
Where is it kept?
In a cave down by the shore.
But it couldn't be handled
by a single man.
Can I persuade you to stay
for supper, Captain?
My wife has made kidney pudding.
Another occasion,
I'd be delighted.
But if you'll oblige me
by pointing out the coves
hereabouts,
I could search for the smugglers
and murderer at the same time.
Two birds with one stone,
you might say.
May I offer you some brandy,
Captain?
I trust you'll be able to tell
by the flavor
whether or not
the duty's been paid.
You were so good.
No one would've guessed
you knew a thing.
Don't underestimate him.
He's smarter than he looks.
Now I must fetch the oars.
Oh, Ross...
I clean forgot,
this came from Trenwith.
What does it say?
"As you may know,
Verity left us yesterday
"for Captain Blarney.
"They are to be married today.
Elizabeth."
So she's done it at last.
I rather feared she might.
Well, why should they not
be happy together
if they do love each other?
Why "As you may know"?
Why should she think
we would know?
Well, perhaps the news
is already about?
I must go to Trenwith.
This letter is abrupt.
They must be upset.
I'll call there on my way back
from the cove.
You'll be well enough here
with Garrick to guard you?
This is our very first
meal together.
Does it seem strange to you?
No.
'Tis only that in all our lives,
we've not met more than
two dozen times.
Tonight, we close the book
on our old lives.
Tomorrow, we open a new one.
And write it together.
If you should ever feel unhappy,
my love,
I swear...
it'll not be of my doing.
Judas!
You gave me such a fright!
Forgive me.
I did not mean...
Ross counseled me to leave.
For your own safety.
I cannot contemplate
such a thing.
But I'm sick of my own company
tonight.
May I avail myself of Ross's?
He isn't here.
I came as soon I could.
How's Francis?
He's half a mind
to go after her.
Persuade him against.
He's no match for Blarney.
Or Verity,
for I think she's now
the bolder of the two.
Certainly the most reckless.
She has the courage
of her convictions,
which I applaud even if
I seem to disapprove.
Well, Ross...
Are you pleased
with your handiwork?
Clearly, it was you
who helped her.
L?
Arrange Verity's elopement?
Have you taken leave
of your senses?
I don't think that Ross
would want you here.
Have I forfeited
his good opinion?
Or his trust?
No, no, it's not that,
it's just...
He has business tonight,
and maybe visitors.
I'll see who it is.
No, no, I must.
'Tis maybe the soldiers.
Wait here.
There be soldiers everywhere.
We couldn't think
where else to come.
"FRANCE".
You've helped them before.
You allowed them to meet
secretly at Nampara.
To my eternal regret.
You were nearly killed!
Do you imagine I want
a repetition of that?
No, no, no, no,
you cannot abide to lose face!
Francis!
You were defeated then,
and this is your revenge.
Francis, stop!
I think you must be drunk,
Francis.
I think you must leave, Ross.
Ross is down at the cove.
You can wait in here
till he comes back
and tells you it's clear.
Verity could not have managed it
on her own.
It must be your doing!
You and that impudent brat
you married!
Francis!
You've been using her
to carry letters
between Verity and that skunk!
When I say I have not,
I expect to be believed.
If you continue
to doubt my word...
Dwight, go back to the kitchen.
"Us a trap."
'Tis a bloody trap!
How dare you say that?
Mark, have you no sense?
Dwight, go back
into the kitchen.
You bastard...
You should've come for me.
Not broken a girl
who couldn't defend herself.
I'll break ye soon enough!
Stop this!
Are you mad?!
Do you want to bring
the soldiers down upon us?
I gave you credit
for more intelligence.
for more loyalty.
But perhaps your choice of wife
has coarsened
your finer instincts!
Enough!
Both of you!
Have you forgot you are family?
You would fight and kill
each other in our house?
Does friendship mean
nothing to you?
Let me finish him!
'Tis finished already.
It isn't, don't you see?
Dr. Enys can't betray you
without betraying us.
You can trust him.
I'd as lief trust a snake.
What you did is
on your conscience.
As what I did is on mine.
You have my word.
I won't betray anyone.
Call him back, Francis.
He's your cousin.
I have no cousin!
And I have no sister!
I have a wife, a son,
and an estate
in considerably less debt today
than it was yesterday.
So I'm content.
Ross!
What in God's name...?
Go home and sleep.
And tomorrow...
Tomorrow, I will tend
to my patients
and try, God knows how,
to make amends.
I've been hiding down
that old mine of your father's.
Wheal Grace?
Wheal Grace.
Shh!
To keep from going off my head,
I went all over her.
There's money in that mine.
Copper.
I never see'd
a more keenly load.
Where is it?
On the east face.
'Twill be underwater most times.
Soldiers!
I never meant to hurt her, Ross.
We know that, Mark.
I must pay for what I've done.
Get in the boat, Mark!
Mark, get in the boat!
SOLDIER: This way!
By the surf, there's a boat!
Mark, take the oars!
Make haste, make haste!
Can you see anything?
Lights in the distance,
heading this way.
Help me with the boots, quick.
Ross, your hand!
It must've happened
when I hit the soldier.
Hide my clothes away, hurry!
Gently now, love.
Let them knock again
before we make light.
Get into bed.
We mustn't wake Julia.
Oh, damn it!
This is a fine time to call!
Mark Daniel escaped.
Is that certain?
And in your boat.
I see.
You do not seem very distressed.
I'm becoming philosophical
in my old age.
Not that I'm happy
to lose a good boat,
but sighing
will not bring it back
any more than it will bring back
yesterday's youth.
Your attitude
does you credit, Captain.
May I, as a man a year or so
your senior,
offer ye a word of advice?
By all means.
Have a care for the law.
'Tis a cranky
and twisty old thing.
And you may flout it
half a dozen times,
but let it once
come to grips with ye
and you'll find it harder
to be loose from
than a great black squid.
I'd welcome your assurance that
my advice has been heeded.
You may rest easy
on that score, Captain.
In that case, I look forward
to calling upon you
and your charming wife
when I'm next in the county.
Have you hurt your hand
somewhere, Captain?
Oh.
Caught it in a rabbit trap.
First Jim, now Mark.
My band of brothers
is shrinking.
At least Mark got clean away
and McNeil suspected nothing.
It was a good night in the end.
Not entirely.
You forget I went to Trenwith.
Was it dreadful?
Suffice it to say
Francis and I have broken.
Possibly for good.
MAN: A letter for
you, Master Poldark.
I've been called to a meeting.
What manner of meeting?
An extraordinary one, to be
called at such short notice,
all partners summoned.
Elizabeth's not down yet.
'Tis you I wish to see.
What is it?
The meeting went well?
In a word... no.
Tell me.
I'd rather hear your news.
I'd rather you did not.
What happened?
I went to see Francis.
What the devil for?
Did Ross send you?
Why would he?
Because he's too craven
to face me himself?
I came here of my own accord
to tell you that
you are mistook about Ross.
He had no hand
in Verity's elopement.
When I did not believe him,
why would I believe you'?
Because I know
who did arrange it.
You've been passing
letters between them
these last three months?
Tell me you're joking.
No, Ross, I wish I were, but...
There's more.
'Twas I who first sought
Captain Blamey out.
I wanted to see if he still
had feelings for Verity
or was as wicked
as people did say.
And you were able to divine that
in a single meeting?
Not in a single meeting.
I brought them together again.
I encouraged Verity.
What have you done?
I don't understand.
All I did was bring two people
together who loved each other.
No, Demelza,
that is not all you did.
I had yesterday a letter
from the Warleggans' bank,
telling me they could no longer.
Support my loan
and that I must make immediate
arrangements to repay it.
I too had such a letter,
word for word.
That's unheard of,
to suddenly withdraw credit.
I called upon
George Warleggan today
to ask him to reconsider.
He declined.
And to me.
And when I asked him
the reason...
He suggested you look to your
connection with Carnmore.
I regret to announce
that not only do I have no more
capital to contribute...
I expect any day
to be declared bankrupt.
For months, you lied to me.
No.
Gone behind my back.
I thought you'd be angry, but...
At what?
Your ignorance?
Your arrogance?
Your utter disregard
for truth and consequence?
All I've done is
make two people happy.
Oh, Demelza,
do not underestimate
the scale of your achievement.
What do you mean?
What now?
For me?
Debtors' prison.
Or the poor house.
'Twas a glorious scheme.
And I'll never regret
the impulse behind it.
But it has cost us dear.
It has cost us everything.
Someone has betrayed us.
Someone close to us.
How did it end with Francis?
What I did,
perhaps it was wrong,
but I did it for love of Verity.
Get out.
I came here to take the blame,
and so I have.
Be angry with me,
but not with Ross.
He had nothing to do with it.
Will you go?!
And never enter
this house again!
And the same goes for Ross.
If he will marry such
an ignorant trull as you,
well, then he must take
the consequences.
"ROSS".
Good men reduced to poverty.
Their families, our family,
everything we've built.
Our very lives together!
Now do you understand?
I have betrayed you.
And been the cause
of a greater betrayal.
I've ruined everything?
And this?
Have I ruined this too?
Have I lost your trust?
Is it forever?
It is.
I can see it in your eyes.
Can I ever win it back?
I don't know.
I'd be lying if I said I did.
You've married into a peculiar
family, Demelza.
We Poldarks are hasty,
sharp tempered,
strong in our likes
and dislikes.
Perhaps yours was the more
reasonable view.
If two people love each other,
why shouldn't they marry?
And be damned
to the consequences.
I only meant to help.
I know that.
I know you could not
have foreseen.
Can you forgive me?
I will try.
But Francis will not.
No.
And you will not forgive him,
and I have caused a rift between
the two sides of our family.
Yes.
I will never be happy
until it is healed.
Then I'm afraid you'll be
unhappy for a very long time.